= VoltRb: A gem client for VoltDB

VoltRB is a gem client for VoltDB that uses the JSON interface.

= Installing VoltRb

Get from RubyGems.org:

  % gem install voltrb

= Example

  This is the Ruby version of VoltDB's hello world example.

  require 'voltrb'

  # Create a client and connect to the VoltDB instance running in the same machine.
  client = VoltRb::Client.new

  # Insert "Hello, World" for different languages.
  client.call_procedure("Insert", "Hello", "World", "English")
  client.call_procedure("Insert", "Bonjour", "Monde", "French")
  client.call_procedure("Insert", "Hola", "Mundo", "Spanish")
  client.call_procedure("Insert", "Hej", "Verden", "Danish")
  client.call_procedure("Insert", "Ciao", "Mondo", "Italian")

  # Say it in Spanish!
  response = client.call_procedure("Select", "Spanish")
  puts "#{response.results[0].first[:HELLO]}, #{response.results[0].first[:WORLD]}!"

= Usage

== Initialization

Initializing a client without passing any arguments will have it connect to the VoltDB instance running in localhost.

  client = VoltRb::Client.new

Or we can specify options as a hash.

  client = VoltRb::Client.new({:host => "voltdbhost", :port => 8888})

The following options are recognized:

* host - should point to the name or IP address of the VoltDB instance.
* port - in case the instance isn't listening on the default port (8080).
* username
* password

== Stored Procedure Invocation

We call VoltDB stored procedures using Client#call_procedure. The first argument is the name of the procedure followed by its parameters if any.

  client.call_procedure(:Insert, "Hello", "World", "English")

Ruby types are automatically mapped to VoltDB types as below:

Ruby::    VoltDB 
Fixnum, Bignum::  Tiny, Small, Integer, Long
Float::   Float, Double
BigDecimal:: Decimal
Time, Date, DateTime::  Timestamp
String::  String

Nils become Nulls. 

== Stored Procedure Response

VoltDB stored procedures can return multiple rowsets (VoltTable objects). This array of rowsets is returned by ProcedureResponse#results. In the hello world example, the Select procedure returns only one so:

  response = client.call_procedure("Select", "Spanish")
  response.results[0]
  => #<VoltRb::VoltTable:0x17952c4 @raw={"status"=>-128, "schema"=>[{"name"=>"HELLO", "type"=>9}, 
  {"name"=>"WORLD", "type"=>9}], "data"=>[["Hola", "Mundo"]]}>

Each VoltTable / rowset implements Enumerable so we can access the rows using the usual methods #each, #all, #first, #last.

  response.results[0].each { |row| puts row }

Each row is a hash with keys that are symbolized column names.

  response.results[0].each { |row| puts "#{row[:HELLO]}, #{row[:WORLD]}" }
  Hola, Mundo
  => [["Hola", "Mundo"]]

You can get the list of columns by looking at the array returned by VoltTable#schema.

  response.results[0].schema
  => [#<struct VoltRb::VoltColumn name=:HELLO, type=9>, #<struct VoltRb::VoltColumn name=:WORLD, type=9>]

== Catching Errors

Standard Ruby errors will be raised in case of network connection problems. VoltDB-specific errors like invalid procedure arguments and constraint violations will raise VoltRb::VoltError. We can find out more by inspecting #status_string or #app_status_string.

  begin
    client.call_procedure("Insert", "Hello", "World", "English")
    # This second call will cause a unique constraint violation.
    client.call_procedure("Insert", "Hello", "World", "English")
  rescue VoltRb::VoltError => bang
    puts "Error: #{bang.status_string}"
  end    

  Error: 
  ========================================================
  VOLTDB ERROR: CONSTRAINT VIOLATION
    Attempted violation of constraint
  Constraint Type UNIQUE, Table CatalogId HELLOWORLD
   header size: 35
   status code: -128 column count: 3
   cols (HELLO:STRING), (WORLD:STRING), (DIALECT:STRING), 
   rows -
    Hello, World, English, 
  
      at Insert.run(Insert.java:19)
  ========================================================

= License

This gem has been released under the MIT License[link:files/MIT-LICENSE.html].

= Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or
implied warranties, including, without limitation, the implied
warranties of merchantibility and fitness for a particular
purpose.

== Contributing

The source code is hosted on http://github.com/beljun/voltrb.

== Credits

Author: Junjun Olympia (@beljun) / http://rubyredtomatoes.com


